chore: Breaking changes page for 3.7 (#7347)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/breaking-changes/37x.md

---
title: Kong Gateway 3.7.x breaking changes
content_type: reference
book: breaking-changes
chapter: 9
---

Before upgrading, review any configuration or breaking changes in this version and prior versions that
affect your current installation.

You may need to adopt different [upgrade paths](/gateway/{{page.release}}/upgrade/#guaranteed-upgrade-paths) depending on your 
deployment methods, set of features in use, or custom plugins, for example.

Review the [changelog](/gateway/changelog/#3700) for all the changes in this release.

## Breaking changes and deprecations

### Configuration

> The Granular Tracing feature has been removed from {{site.base_gateway}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Granular Tracing feature has been deprecated and removed from {{site.base_gateway}}.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure if it was actually deprecated but listing it as 'removed' left me wanting more info

Author: It's both. It was deprecated in 3.0: https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/changelog/#breaking-changes-and-deprecations-5:~:text=Support%20for%20the%20nginx%2Dopentracing%20module%20is%20deprecated%20as%20of%203.0%20and%20will%20be%20removed%20from%20Kong%20in%204.0%20(see%20the%20Known%20Limitations%20section%20for%20additional%20information).

It's now fully removed (was supposed to be in 4.0, but seems like they did it earlier).

> The following tracing-related `kong.conf` parameters are no longer available. 
> Remove them from your configuration when upgrading to 3.7:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of your upgrade to 3.7, please remove the following tracing-related parameters from your `kong.conf` file.
```

* `tracing`
* `tracing_write_strategy`
* `tracing_write_endpoint`
* `tracing_time_threshold`
* `tracing_types`
* `tracing_debug_header`
* `generate_trace_details`

> You should now use [OpenTelemetry Instrumentation](/gateway/{{page.release}}/production/tracing/) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend transitioning to [OpenTelemetry Instrumentation](/gateway/{{page.release}}/production/tracing/) instead.
```
